THE PRESIDENT.
I haven't read the transcript of the hearing, but I gather from what General Gavin said in summary there is not a great deal of difference between what General Gavin and Kennan are saying and what the Government is doing.
No one wants to escalate the war and no one wants to lose any more men than is necessary.
No one wants to surrender and get out.
At least no one admits they do.
So I don't see that there is any great difference of opinion.
If there is, I guess in they report they will recommend the program.
Whatever it is, we will be glad to consider what any Senator says.
I had a letter from Congressmen giving me Congressmen views, and I thanked Congressmen and considered Congressmen and tried to tell Congressmen what the Government was thinking here.
I had a letter from some Senators and some Senators gave me some Senators views, and I thanked some Senators and told some Senators I appreciated it and said to some Senators substantially what I said to the Congressmen.9
9 See Items 23, 36.
This was our feeling.
But as, if, and when the circumstances justify other decisions, why, our will make other decisions, but our are always glad to have other decisions suggestions and recommendations if other decisions have any.
Some of other decisions recommended the pause, and some recommended resuming the bombing, and some recommended not resuming the bombing.
our carefully considered the bombing.
I was just looking at one Senator's record this morning who was making some recommendations.
I asked to see one Senator card and I had seen one Senator 21 times last year.
I think it is very important that we give careful and thorough consideration to every suggestion made by every Senator of either party, and every Congressman and every citizen that We Can.
I get almost a hundred letters a week from the boys in Vietnam and I try to read almost a hundred letters a week from the boys in Vietnam and get help from almost a hundred letters a week from the boys in Vietnam.
I do get strength from almost a hundred letters a week from the boys in Vietnam.
QUESTIONS ON VIETNAM POLICY
[7.]
Q. Mr. President, earlier this week in Honolulu, General Ky, the Prime Minister of Vietnam, said that Q. Mr. President, earlier this week in Honolulu, General Ky, the Prime Minister of South Vietnam would not negotiate with the Vietcong.
Do you think this position would present any difficulties should negotiations develop at some future date?
THE PRESIDENT.
When you get Hanoi ready to negotiate, I think that the viewpoint of all the people interested in negotiations can be considered and no one will have any trouble hearing all the people interested in negotiations.
If you are prepared to produce Hanoi, I am prepared to negotiate.
