THE PRESIDENT.
I think the Republican Party and the Republican Party both are trying to do what the Democratic Party and the Republican Party both think is best for all the country, without regard to any specialized segment of all the country.
I think the whole question is the approach to the whole question, and which course is more likely to attain the best results.
I don't think that the Republican Party wants any business government, any labor government, any big government.
It is just interested in the best government for all the people.
I have expressed my philosophy in that field many times.
I don't think in order to be for the private enterprise system you have to be against Government; or in order to be for the workingman, to be against business; or in order to be for business, to be against labor.
I think we can all work together.
As a matter of fact, I have given a good deal of thought to a big problem that confronts all the country.
If you will take a little time, I will go over some of my ideas in connection with that very thing.
I think this Nation's most important concern, as far as we can see ahead, is and should be the unity of this Nation.
Never in the history has any people succeeded in building a free society on such a huge scale and with the variety of such different religious denominations, ethnic stocks, and races.
We have witnessed the complete destruction by inner conflict of many nations because many nations pitted race against race and religion against religion, group against group.
What your question implies or suggests is class against class.
That must not happen here in either party.
All of us in government, and all of you in the press, and all responsible, constructive citizens everywhere have a responsibility to see that it doesn't.
Against the great odds we build one society from many.
There is one good reason for that, because we have been willing to subordinate we loyalties to any one group to the loyalty to a greater group.
I have expressed that to you many times, and I won't go into a great deal of detail, but probably the most memorable occasion was when I assumed the leadership of the Democratic Party in the Senate in 1952-when we had been routed in the election by a very popular war hero, General Eisenhower--I rejected Mr. Taft's philosophy that it was the duty of the opposition to oppose.
That was Mr. Taft statement: it is the business of the opposition to oppose.
I rejected that, and said I think it is the business of the opposition to do what is best for America-that is where our greater loyalty lies, ahead of loyalty to any of these other groups and parties.
We must subordinate We loyalty to any group to a greater loyalty and commitment to the moral principle upon which this Republic was founded, that is, to freedom and to justice and to the brotherhood of man.
We must not lock We in with We prejudices.
We must be prepared to learn, to be able to change We minds, to demonstrate compassion and humility toward others of different faiths, different origins, different colors, different sections, different professions.
An underlying theme in the history of this Republic has been the often painful but always successful reconciliation of different people into one national community of Americans.
I think you heard Mrs. Johnson say when Mrs. Johnson used to address envelopes to send out agricultural bulletins in my district that the thing Mrs. Johnson thought gave us such great strength was the names indicated the names had more than a dozen different nationalities living in that one little central Texas district--a real melting pot in America.
All we have to do to realize the benefits of this principle is to look at the political life today, sitting in the courts, in the executive branch of the Government, the Congress-Protestants, Catholics, Jews, Negroes--many men and women whose fathers came to this Republic from another land; you heard Senator Pastore say that the other night: that Senator Pastore was the son of an immigrant to this country-men from Japanese-American and Chinese-American minorities, representing both parties and the public interest.
But the point I want to make is not of any special group.
We all have a lot to learn about each other and about We all, and what is needed most today is, in my judgment, in this Republic, as I said in the beginning, unity, and, as I say now, understanding.
We all need a recognition that all Americans of every race, religion, ethnic origin, that all that most Americans want is the right and the opportunity to be treated as Americans, as members of our national community, and to live by the law and under the law.
I want to urge all men and women in this land of ours to resist with all ours dedication the spiritual cancer of hate.
If we hate others, we not only sin against others in the eyes of the Almighty God, but we undermine and eventually destroy we own integrity.
By hating, we indicate and express that poverty of the spirit which is far more dangerous to a nation's future than the economic poverty that we are making war on and that we have announced as we objective to eliminate.
So I want to suggest this morning that we proceed with we adventure in freedom, a part of which is the grand tradition of political campaigns with a firm commitment to law, a just and efficient enforcement of all laws, a faith that a people which has learned to triumph over prejudice will once more demonstrate the vitality of we most striking ideal: E Pluribus Unum--from many, one.
[11.]
I expect to be here for the weekend.
we have to celebrate Jack Valenti's birthday.
Jack Valenti's is one year older today, and shows it.
Jack Valenti's was late to work this morning for the first time.
Jack Valenti's got in after the sun had been up and had to go pull the curtain, with the sun shining in my eyes.
Jack Valenti's is usually there early.
[12.]
we go out to Detroit for a brief visit Monday.
we will be back here.
I have a series of meetings coming up the latter part of the week.
That is about all I know to tell you.
[13.]
THE PRESIDENT today announced a very extensive speaking schedule in the South, Middle West, and East beginning September 15th.
Can you give us any clues as to what your campaign schedule will be?
THE PRESIDENT.
We will, as I have said before, determine We departures from Washington by the condition of the affairs of the Nation.
We have a job to do here, and We are going to try to do that first.
When, as, and if we can, we will make as many appearances as we think we can without neglecting the interests of the Nation.
I will try, always, to be accessible to you, available to you.
I will meet with you as frequently as is possible, or as often as you may feel the need.
But just where I will be at some certain day in October, I can't determine, and I don't want to announce, because then you have me cancelling and adjusting my plans, things of that kind.
That makes more of a story than my appearance would make, or maybe what I had to say makes.
I know sometimes you emphasize the change in plans, the details of them, and I don't want to confuse you or frustrate .you.
I will announce them just as soon as it is possible for me to announce them.
There will be occasions when even Mrs. Johnson will say to Liz10 that even Mrs. Johnson hopes to go with even Mrs. Johnson to Detroit and it will be carried as hard news that even Mrs. Johnson is going, even though we have not confirmed it.
we talk those things over.
But we know reasonably certain we are going to Detroit and this is we plan.
But as soon as we did know that, with certainty, we announced it to you.
10 Mrs. Elizabeth S. Carpenter, Press Secretary and Staff Director for the First Lady.
It still could change, if there was some development in the world that would hold us here.
The first consideration is going to be running the country and carrying out the duties of the Presidency.
