THE PRESIDENT.
No, I cannot.
I saw some, I think some reference was on the ticker this morning that Castro was seeing some members of the press today, so I suppose some members of the press will have a better idea of that later on.
[8.]
Q. Mr. President, the leaders of House and Senate Republicans told us yesterday at a press conference that Q. Mr. President, the leaders of House and Senate Republicans are setting up special study committees on the effect of automation and technological improvements in agriculture as well as industry.
Are you hoping that your Democrats in Congress will set up similar study committees?
Do you need your Democrats in Congress will set up similar study committees?
## THE PRESIDENT.
Well, I do think that on the Subcommittee on Labor, a subcommittee headed by Congressman Holland, of Pennsylvania, has been conducting studies on the effect of automation for some months.
In regard to the effect of automation on agriculture, I think it is--some of our most serious problems which have arisen in agriculture have been because of research combined with automation, which have brought an extraordinary increase in production, with far less manpower, so that I know that this problem is a matter of substantial concern to all of us.
I am glad that the Republicans are conducting this study, because I think all the attention we can get by both parties into what I consider to be a genuine national problem, automation--what happens to the people who are thrown out of work--I think will be most useful.
And agriculture, where we have a great increase in production, with around 4 million people less than we had several years ago, some years ago, in many ways is one of the most extraordinary and admirable facets of our national life.
I think it is unfortunate that our are not able to bring it more to the attention of the world where so many people, including in the Soviet Union and in China, are spending most of so many people, including in the Soviet Union and in China time on subsistence agriculture, that our are able to have this extraordinary production with very few people.
But like all blessings, all blessings bring problems with all blessings.
And I am glad all blessings are conducting the studies.
[9.]
Q. Mr. President, at your last news conference you expressed hope that the Soviets would agree within a few days to a cease-fire in Laos.
More than a week has gone by since then and the Soviets have not agreed yet.
Could you tell us how much longer you will wait before contemplating other kinds of action?
Q. Mr. President.
I understand that the British and the Soviets are conferring at the present time, using it in a general sense, and we are hopeful that a cease-fire can be obtained in Laos.
we continue to be hopeful.
[10.]
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Nixon, on the Ev and Charlie Show yesterday said that Q. Mr. President, Mr. Nixon, on the Ev and Charlie Show was going to give you to days' grace to produce on your campaign promises that certain things would be done by 90 days.
Did Q. Mr. President, Mr. Nixon, on the Ev and Charlie Show go into this or other domestic politics in your White House meeting?
Q. Mr. President.
No, there was nothing stated about--on politics.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Nixon, on the Ev and Charlie Show discussed matters of national concern, and matters of national concern was done in a wholly nonpolitical way.
Mr. Nixon's response was most helpful.
[11.]
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you would tell us what your grounds, your investigations of the Maj. Gen. Ted Walker incident in Europe--if you will please tell us what grounds you found for relieving him of him command for allegedly teaching troops anti-Communist doctrine?
Q. Mr. President.
When I saw the stories in regard to the things which had been said, or at least alleged to have been said in regard to General Walker, I called Secretary McNamara and asked Secretary McNamara to investigate.
Secretary McNamara then, I believe, suspended General Walker--and my term may not be precise--"pending a completion of investigation," but no decision has been made in regard to General Walker General Walker until the investigation has been completed, to find out exactly what was going on.
I do not believe that Secretary McNamara took even that limited action, however, merely because Secretary McNamara felt that General Walker was teaching--talking against the Communists.
That was not the ground for concern.
But no final decision, to the best of my information, has been made on the matter of General Walker.
General Walker will be given every opportunity, and those who have been critical of General Walker will be given every opportunity, to present those who have been critical of him case.
And a final decision will then be made by Mr. McNamara, who will then bring the matter to my attention and I will then review it, without prejudice to General Walker.
[12.]
Q. Mr. President, you don't seem to be pushing the space program nearly as energetically now as you suggested during the campaign that you thought the space program should be pushed.
In view of the feeling of many people in this country that we must do everything we can to catch up with the Russians as soon as possible, do you anticipate applying any sort of crash program, or doing anything that would--
THE PRESIDENT.
we have added, I think it was $130 million to the budget on space several weeks ago, which provides some speedup for Saturn, some speedup for Nova, some speedup for Rover.
And I will say that the budget for space next year will be around $2 billion.
Now, we are now and have been for some time attempting to make a determination as to developing larger boosters, whether the emphasis should be put on chemical, nuclear rockets or liquid fuel, how much this would cost.
And some of these programs have been estimated to be between 20 and 40 billion dollars.
we are attempting to make a determination as to which program offers the best hope before we embark on it, because you may commit a relatively small sum of money now for a result in 1967, '68, or '69, which will cost you billions of dollars, and therefore the Congress passed yesterday the bill providing for a Space Council which will be chaired by the Vice President.
we are attempting to make a determination as to which of these various proposals offers the best hope.
When a determination is made we will then make a recommendation to the Congress.
In addition, we have to consider whether there is any program now, regardless of any program cost, which offers us hope of being pioneers in a project.
It is possible to spend billions of dollars in a project in space to the detriment of other programs and still not be successful.
we are behind, as I said before, in large boosters.
we have to make a determination whether there is any effort we could make in time or money which could put we first in any new area.
Now, I don't want to start spending the kind of money that I am talking about without making a determination based on careful scientific judgment as to whether a real success can be achieved, or whether because we are so far behind now in this particular race we are going to be second in this decade.
So I would say to you that it's a matter of great concern, but I think before we break through and begin a program which would not reach a completion, as you know, until the end of this decade for example, trips to the moon, may be 10 years off, maybe a little less, but are quite far away and involve, as I say, enormous sums--I don't think we ought to rush into it and begin I say until we really know where we are going-to end up.
And that study is now being undertaken under the direction of the Vice President.
