THE PRESIDENT.
Well, strangely enough, you ladies and gentlemen were hearing me talk about this problem of inflation a few months back where everybody wanted to spend more money and decrease taxes.
I believe that labor, management, and Government must all be concerned in this problem of inflation; and I think, of all these branches, no one could be more concerned than is labor.
It is easy to suppose, because a man is getting increased wages, that a man, through a man collective bargaining process, is staying ahead of the progress of inflation.
I don't believe this is ever true, and the reason that it is not true is this: our whole industrial civilization, today certainly, has come to include as its important feature for the future of the laborer the pension plan--social security--pension plans of the companies, and the laborer own insurance and bonds, savings of that kind.
Now, when the laborer starts to make those savings at the beginning of, let's say, a 30-year period of work, but every year there is inflation, regardless of the laborer wages the laborer will get back the dollars at the end of this inflationary period; whereas, the laborer was paying in the laborer dollars at the median of that whole process.
In other words, if you take the average of the dollars the laborer put in, you take the average of the dollars he put in will be worth 15 years more than the ones the laborer gets back.
So that no group can have any more interest in combating inflation than labor, as I see the problem.
Therefore, I think that, first of all, if we are going to remain a country without artificial control, meaning that we are not going to try to go into a federally controlled economy, then labor and business must be very, very careful about this whole problem of pushing wages each year above those rates that imply or show the increases in productivity; and business must make business profits of such a scale that where labor and business can still continue to invest money, labor and business are not robbing the public, because if labor and business do, just as sure as you are a foot high, one day the American consumer is going to rebel.
the laborer is going to rebel in a big way, and there will be real trouble, and we will get something that we don't want.
Now, Government's principal reason here is to keep down expenses so we can try to keep, so far as we can, fiscal responsibility.
I do not admit, and I do not for a moment believe, that we are going to have constantly increasing deficits.
I believe the prospects are this next one--goodness knows, horrible as it is--must be the highest one, and we must go back from there.
